What cannot get in this lesson we're going to be manipulating the styling of elements within our page.
So we're going to be creating what we see here where we've got rotating callers and some random callers
being applied to the elements within our age Tim Page.
The way that we're going to do this is we're going to use the style attribute so we know when we're
writing H.T. M-L that we can grab the style.
So first of all let's grab this element up here.
We're going to just do it by id setting up a variable.
Message equals document and we've done this multiple times before where we're using Document get element
by ID in order to grab that element because we just need to have that one element and we're going to
bring that in to a variable called message.
So let's go back out and refreshed the page and now type message so that we can see that we can grab
that element.
So once we have that element we can actually do stuff with that element.
So watch what happens with that element and let's do message.
And just like what we saw earlier where we're getting the enraged him all the inner text and we were
also able to pull back the attributes so we could pull back the ID and so on.
So if we do something like Message ID we actually get its ID being returned back.
So we see within that dorm we already have a connection within that object connecting it to all of the
different parts all the different attributes that are part of that element.
So it can pull back the ID and that also means that if we can pull it back then we can update it and
we know when were writing him.
We can add in the attribute style and style it gives us the ability to manipulate the essence of the
element.
So let's let's try that.
So we've got the elements within the value of message and let's apply style to it.
So what style we know we have a lot of options with style.
And one of them that we use and C-s us is we display.
So let's update the display value.
And we're going to set it to none.
So watch what happens to message when I click this and we see that it disappears.
Because we've now updated the style attribute to it.
So now that element of say style display none so we can bring it back into our page by using block.
And we know that from CSSA if we display block then it's visible once again.
So that element didn't actually disappear we just weren't able to view it.
And that was all done through us.
So let's try something else so we know that with CSX we've got a lot of options.
We can do color so we can update the color of an element.
So let's try updating the color so watch again that first element and we're updating color and we see
it comes back red.
So we can update and change the color.
We've also got a bunch of options for the border so we can select back the border color as well.
So let's do the border of the element and we've got options for border bottom.
So this is in line with what we typically see within CSSA where we can do solid one pick and we'll do
block so we can see that we can add that bottom border to it.
And we also can update the color.
So if we want to do just the bottom border color we've got an option to that as well.
So let's do color and equal it in blue.
So this is the same options that we have in CSX when we select those elements we can see that we've
got all of these options so when I select it within here now I've got all of these attributes being
applied.
So I've selected the element and I'm looking at my inspector within the chrome console and I see I've
got a bottom border one pick solid blue.
I've got a color red display.
Block so we've got all of those attributes being added in.
And we're doing all of this dynamically via javascript.
Let's do one more thing let's do a border so let's do a border completely around it and we'll do a border
one pick solid and let's do a black border around it.
So now we can do a border around it.
So there's a lot of options.
And some of the styling is the same as the styling attributes.
And some will vary slightly.
So you got to be a little bit careful that it's not always exactly like CSX.
There's also background color.
So this one because it's an object.
They keep it within one word like that.
So let's update the background color and set it to yellow.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and update some of the style and go to a web page.
Any web page or open up the one that we've got here now and create some elements and then select those
elements and update some of those styling of those elements and just get familiar with some of the styling
options.
And you can see the options within the dropdown if you're using Chrome within the developer console.
You'll see that just as I'm typing here you get a bunch of options for style.
So I've got the same thing here that I've got a lot of different options.
They're all listed in here.
You can see that you can get a really really fine tune what you're updating.
We've got background color which we've used.
We've got background position so we can update all of that dynamically as well which is really cool
because that gives us the ability to move things around.
We've got the font options so we can do font size.
So some of these if you're especially used to see assess a lot of the stuff will be familiar with you
and just keep in mind that there is a way that you need to make sure that it's not always lined within
that same format.
So there's padding.
So go ahead.
Open up a web page.
Just try it out for yourself and just be familiar with the styling.
And also I've got a challenge for you as well.
So I want you to open up your editor and select out all of these elements.
And I want you to apply different background color to them.
So open them up and apply a background color to them so maybe open them up and do yellow to all of the
class outputs.
So pause the video and update the background color of all of the elements with the class output and
I'll show you the solution coming up.
So you had an opportunity to try that out.
So let me show you the solution for this.
So the challenge is that we've got a number of elements with the class output and we want to update
the background color to yellow.
So the first thing that we need to do is make our selection of our elements and get it into a usable
format in Javascript.
So placing all of those elements into an object.
So I'm going to use E-L as a variable and this is where it's optional so there is a number of ways actually
to make the selection because we're simply selecting all the elements with class.
So I like to use actually Querrey selector all.
And that's because this one it's really one of the most flexible ones.
But again it's up to you.
You could do this in a number of different ways.
So Querrey select all.
And then we need to select the particular element and with queries select all.
Don't forget if you're selecting a class that to include the period in front of it.
So it's often sometimes that something that gets left out because the other ones when we're already
specifying how we're grabbing that element if we're grabbing it by ID we already know that there's going
to be a hash in front of it when we're doing it within styling so we don't need to be specific but in
here we need a way to differentiate that it's output and it's not an idea or it's not a tag and so on.
So that's where we need to specify just as we do within CSX.
So grab all of those elements and now we know that we've got access to it as as an array so we can loop
through all of those Arev values and output the values.
I can set one up here within the loop.
So basically I'm going to use the variable x so x starting at zero and loop through while x is less
than l length because we've got all of those elements within that L array and then we need to increment
x.
So we have a way out of loop.
So eventually that that condition will fail.
So now we're doing our loop and the next part of it was simply to update the background color to yellow.
So let's do l and grab it with an X and we saw earlier that we can do style and background color.
So there is a number of different options as well but let's do background color and lets the background
color to yellow.
So go back out refresh your page and we see that we were able to set them all.
Yellow.
So there was a second part to this challenge.
And now what I want you to do is as we saw earlier I want a bunch of random colors rotating colors and
every two to three seconds.
I want a different background color on the elements of the class that have class output.
So update your code.
Open up your editor and make those adjustments to the source code and use what we worked on earlier
where we saw the onload where we can launch a function and then use that function to set an interval
which we also saw earlier where we can set an interval to run another function on a set amount of time.
So go ahead.
Plus the video.
Try it out and I'll show you the solution to that.
So we'll get an opportunity to try this out.
And the first thing that we need to do we need to set up an array.
So I'm going to set up an area I'm going to call that background color.
And then within here we need to populate it with a number of typical background colors.
So we're going to use red blue and yellow and green and then I'm also going to use some other ones here
so I think pink is a valid color purple so you can you can add as many as you want to this list that
doesn't really matter.
This is just giving us more variety within what we're choosing to display.
And the next thing that I want to do is I want to hold a value for the color because I want to have
random color.
So I'm just going to have a placeholder of a global variable called See and then next what we need to
do is we need to launch a function which is going to initiate the intervals because remember again that
that interval we need a way to start it and we want to make sure the page has loaded before we try to
run our interval.
So I wait till on load and we saw earlier that there was a number of ways to do this as well.
So you could do it within the javascript's window on load.
It doesn't really matter.
We're just launching that start function.
So now we need to go in here and create a start function of function and start and within the start
function.
This is where we're going to set our interval.
So using the method set interval that allows us to run a code snippet repeatedly on a fixed delay and
we know that we can use a function which would be our code snippet that we could run repeatedly.
And then next we need to set an interval time.
So I'm going to use two thousand milliseconds so that equates to about two seconds.
So next and last but not least we need to create another function.
And this one is going to be the one that's actually going to swap the background color and do all of
that functionality.
So we've got quite a bit of it already done in here where we're setting it as yellow.
But we do need to have a little bit of random action happening as well.
So the way that we can select a random value from our color array is we've thought we've seen this before
where we can generate using math random and pick a random value.
So let's set that up will you see which was our placeholder.
We're going to grab that array which was background color.
And then here is where we need to specify the index value that we want to use for this color.
So usually I like to do this in all in one nice neat statement.
You could also set up another variable call that number and then this one could generate the random
number and then place that within the brackets.
But for now I'm going to just do it all as one statement so mouth floor and then we know that within
here the reason we use mouth floor is because math random returns back of value with a bunch of decimal
places.
So we want to cut off all those decimal places.
And we also know that with math random if we multiply it by a number that actually gives us a random
value for that.
Up to that number zero to that number and we're going to do length so that we'll pick a random number.
We've got a length of six.
So we'll get a random number from 0 to 5 because we're math floor.
And basically that equals all of the possible index values within the background array.
So now all that is next step.
Just copy that see over to there.
And now we're ready to try this out.
So save it and go out here and try it out.
And we wait two seconds and basically we have completed our functionality for this lesson where we've
got these rotating colors background colors available within our within our aged him M..
And also practice even more with the style attribute because there is a lot you can do.
And if you're not familiar with CSSA then you're going to see that there's a lot of different options
for those attributes.
So it is important to kind of get familiar with them and see what is available and if you are familiar
with CSSA you should be able to find similar attributes similar object values that you can relate and
connect to an update within your team.
So go ahead and try it for yourself.
And in the next lesson we're going to look at even more we can do with styling and Javascript.